---
layout: post
title:  "Communication Protocol"
date:   2017-07-26 19:39:00
categories: 
---

```
i control my devices; they do not control me.  
my tools and technology are in service to my ends, not the other way around.  
they are here to help me turn my thoughts into reality. nothing more.  
this has many implications.
```
---
### the tl:dr;

* if you’ve sent me a communication in any medium and i haven’t responded, (a) i haven’t seen it, or (b) i have seen it but it wasn’t marked as urgent and i have deferred responding.
* between human-written emails, autogenerated emails, and spam, i receive on the order of 200 emails a day. it is not personal if i don't get back to you right away. also, most people implicitly think their communication is urgent (it is not). 
* in general, i prefer text message (signal, but also sms and imessage) to communication with people i know. also, because of how often i check my email (no more than 3x/day), coordinating logistics close to the time of an event or meeting happens much more effectively via text. 
* i prefer slack over all else for team-based communications.

---

and now for the details...  
&nbsp;

### my thinking: 

the world in which i live is shaped by hyperconnected, ubiquitous computing, wireless internet, and corporations that benefit from my attention. it is easier than ever to drown in constant, mostly meaningless communication. as a response to this reality, i have decided to make clear guidelines that support me living the life i want to live. as such…

i respond to communications on my own timeline. i do not consider it rude to respond to phone calls, text messages (on any platform, including but not limited to sms, email, slack, signal, facebook, & whatsapp) and other forms of communication when/if i see fit. if it’s not clear to me that your communication requires a response, i may simply not respond.  
&nbsp;

#### general 
* if it is urgent that i read your communication, please state that explicitly (if it is an email, state this urgency in the subject line of the email. if it’s any other communication, please say that it’s urgent as early as possible in the communication (text, audio, video, etc.)
* if a response is required, please state the urgency of the response and by when you need it
* i regularly redirect communications to platforms that are better for me. if a communication comes to me in a medium/channel and i would prefer it in another, i will redirect it. if a communication in one channel shifts to be more relevant for another (i.e. personal convos that become work convos), i will redirect. don’t take offense if this happens! (it’s not you, it’s me… usually)

#### time
* i guard my focused time like a hawk. i need to get into flow() regularly to do the work i do. if you get in touch with me when i’m trying to flow, it is highly unlikely that i will respond. 
* i believe time is one of our most valuable resources and i think very critically about how i use mine. (sidetone:  it astounds me that we have global institutions to facilitate systems of fictional things (like money), but when it comes to time, we basically have nothing.) if i say i can’t come to something, it’s likely a very calculated decision based on many different factors and you should trust me that when i said i couldn’t, i couldn’t.

#### meetings
* i try to schedule all my meetings in the afternoon or evenings (see [time](#time)).
* i am a trained facilitator and believe that any good, meaningful meeting requires ~ 1:1  planning time to length and 1:2 prep + follow up work to length for each participant. else, it probably shouldn’t be a meeting (i.e. the time spent in the meeting could have been used asynchronously with less distruption to people's schedules). i plan for, prep for, attend, and follow up from meetings under this framework. if i reject your meeting or request a later date, it’s not personal; i just keep a close eye on how much time i spend in meetings and the implications of that. 

#### email
* i almost never check email on my phone. in fact, unless i know i’m going to need them, i often delete the apps that allow me to check email on my phone easily. this forces me to check email via a browser. it’s a much worse experience and that is a valuable way to help me stay off of my email constantly.
* i check my email at most 3x/day:
    * in the morning (rarely)
    * midday (usually post-lunch)
    * late afternoon/early evening
* i rarely respond to non-urgent email within 24 hours. turns out, the more email you send, the more email you get; conversely, the less email you send, the less email you get. the latter is **great** for my focus and general sanity. 
* i (try to) keep my work & personal email streams separate. the separation between work and “life” is false (as are almost all barriers), but it's helpful to my organizational systems. it's also helpful for turning off (in both directions - turning off work when i want to not work and turning off non-work systems when i need to focus on work)
    * work email: <lqb@mit.edu>
    * work calendar: <lqb.mitcolab@gmail.com>
    * personal email: <lqb@alum.mit.edu>
    * personal calendar: <lawrence.barriner.ii@gmail.com>

#### phone
* my phone is on silent 100% of the time.
* 90% of the day, my phone screen is not visible to me. 
* i (generally) do not answer phone calls when they come in. this is mostly because of the above two points, but i also just don’t like doing it. 
* i will never answer a call from a number i do not recognize. if you need me, leave a message. i’ll get back to you when i can.
* when i am trying to flow or just have a focused work session, my phone is often on airplane mode. even when flowing, i almost always work in pomodoros so if you have an urgent communication, 


[jekyll-gh]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[jekyll]:    http://jekyllrb.com
